## Book: Three-body problem
_Liu Cixin_

### Concepts

#### `humankind`

- "It was impossible to expect a moral awakening from humankind itself, just like it was impossible to expect humans to lift off the earth by pulling up on their own hair. To achieve moral awakening required a force outside the human race."
- The Adventists would like to destroy the human race by means of an alien power; the Redemptionists worship the alien civilization as a god; the Survivors wish to betray other humans to buy their own survival.
- The focus of Christianity is Man.
- He believed that technological progress was a disease in human society. The explosive development of technology was analogous to the growth of cancer cells, and the results would be identical: the exhaustion of all sources of nourishment, the destruction of organs, and the final death of the host body.
- it would be impossible to stop the madness of humanity.

#### `computer insights`

- behind the “C:\>” was a bottomless abyss.
- She learned about something called FORTRAN, which allowed you to program using a language close to natural language.
- Strategic blind spots are extremely dangerous.

#### `astrophysics`

- The laws of physics are invariant across space and time.
- [during the Chinese Revolution] "Ohm’s law you called resistance law, Maxwell’s equations you called electromagnetic equations, Planck’s constant you called the quantum constant"
- [Kardashev Scale](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kardashev_scale) amount of energy a civilization is able to use for communication.
- [Monte Carlo Method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monte_Carlo_method) the essential idea is using randomness to solve problems.
- “This is the six-dimensional body of the proton projected into three-space.” (WTF?)
- Preliminary Analysis of the Influence of Extraterrestrial Civilizations on Human Social and Political Trends
- the signal wave was an abstract view of the universe: one end connected to the endless past, the other to the endless future
- [Jovian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giant_planet) (refers to the Roman god Jupiter) means all the planets were similar to Jupiter

### Historical notion

- [Big-character](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big-character_poster) are handwritten, wall-mounted posters using large-sized Chinese characters, used as a means of protest, propaganda, and popular communication
- Taikonauts: chinese astronaut
- [Fu Xi](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fu_Xi): character of chinese mythology
- [Mozi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mozi) chinese philosopher.

### Quotes

- "Does it represent the yearning for order, or the surrender to chaos?"
- "I can only dance in my chains."
- “Emptiness is not nothingness. Emptiness is a type of existence. You must use this existential emptiness to fill yourself.”
- "The next day I kept on thinking about the three spheres dancing in emptiness."
