## Book: Lean Analytics
_Alistair Croll, Benjamin Yoskovitz_

### Concept

#### `metrics`

- Metrics they often come in pairs:
> Conversion Rate (the percentage of people who buy something) is tied to time-to-purshase(how long it takes someone to buy something). Together they tell you a lot about your cash flow.
<br/>

> Viral coefficient (the number of people a user successfully invites to your service) and viral cicle time (how long it takes them to invite others) drive your adoption rate.

- Vanity x actionable metrics
> Vanity metrics might make you feel good, but they don’t change how you act. Actionable metrics change your behavior by helping you pick a course of action.

- Exploratory versus reporting metrics
> Exploratory metrics are speculative and try to find unknown insights to give you the upper hand, while reporting metrics keep you abreast of normal, managerial, day-to-day operations.

- Leading versus lagging metrics
> Leading metrics give you a predictive understanding of the future; lagging metrics explain the past. Leading metrics are better because you still have time to act on them — the horse hasn’t left the barn yet.

- Correlated versus causal metrics
> If two metrics change together, they’re correlated, but if one metric causes another metric to change, they’re causal. If you find a causal relationship between something you want (like revenue) and something you can control (like which ad you show), then you can change the future.

#### `e-commerce`

- The key to successful e-commerce is in increasing shopping cart size; that’s really where the money is made. I like to think of customer acquisition cost as a fixed cost, so any increase in order size is expanding your margin.
- An e-commerce company can look at 90-day repurchase rates and get a sense of which model it’s in.

### Quotes

- "Don’t sell what you can make; make what you can sell."
- "Bud Caddell has three clear criteria for deciding what to spend your time on: something that you’re good at, that you want to do, and that you can make money doing."
- "selling more stuff to more people more often for more money more efficiently"
- "If you find a concentration of desirable behavior in one segment, you can then target it"

### Links

- http://www.michaeleisen.org/blog/?p=358
- http://www.shopify.com/technology/4018382-defining-churn-rate-no-really-this-actually-requires-an-entire-blog-post
